Most people treat Chad GPT like a new
intern, but I use it to drive five
strategies. It's like having five of the
world's smartest minds work 24/7 for
only $20 a month to help me move faster,
decide better, and focus on what truly
matters. But I only figured this out
after spending years in tech and AI as a
CEO, board member, and investor, where I
watched elite teams use AI in ways most
people never see. So today, I'm sharing
those five strategies to use chat PT so
well, it feels illegal. The first
strategy is called the clone. When I was
a kid, my grandpa had late stage
Alzheimer's. Every few minutes he would
look at my grandmother, the woman he had
been married for over 60 years, and he
would ask, "Who are you?" And then he
would go ahead and tell me a story,
forgetting that he just told me the
exact same story 5 minutes ago. His
brain didn't have memory of his last 5
minutes. Chat GPT suffers from something
very similar. Every time you open a new
chat session, you're starting from zero
context. But there is a way to give chat
GPT an almost telepathic ability. It can
keep the memory and context for you
alive without you explaining every
single time. For that, I apply a
three-step framework called ESP. E is
extract. Open the voice mode in Chad GPD
and say, "Listen, you're my chief of
staff. Interview me for 20 minutes, 30
minutes. my background, my tone, my
strategy, my blind spots. Then talk a
while. Be messy. Don't self-edit. This
step is about raw capture only. S is
synthesize. Now, this is where you turn
the raw data into an operating system.
So, upload the transcript of whatever
you said to Chat GPT and ask Chat GPT to
organize it into a summary on who you
are and how you think. Now go to
settings, custom instructions, and paste
your summary. By the way, this is also
the place where you tell Chat GPT
exactly how you want it to behave.
Always format data as tables. Don't send
me walls of text. But now Chat GPT knows
who you are, how you want your responses
shaped, and what to avoid by default.
And here's where it gets really wild. P
is for projects. Think of a project as a
space where you store your context. It
lives with your instructions, memories,
files, repeated tasks. For instance, for
your work projects, upload your resume,
PDFs, and data that's relevant. You can
even customize the instructions inside
each project's settings. Just remember
not to mix domains. So for example, I
have my consulting project and then my
YouTube project and my health project
separate. This turns your EI from a
temporary chat into a persistent brain.
But that's only the first battle. You
still need an army to do the heavy
lifting. That is our next strategy. The
second strategy is called the swarm.
There's a great story in ancient Indian
mythology about a demon who was
impossible to defeat with a single
weapon. So the great goddess manifested
eight arms wielding eight different
weapons at once. She was known as
Ashtabuja Dura. Eight arms, eight
weapons, eight battles fought in
parallel. And most of us are fighting
our own modern demons with just our two
bare hands. Our brain can only handle
one task at a time. You need to hire
three specific advanced capabilities of
chat GPT. Number one, your hands. Stop
doing tasks one by one. Use the agent
mode. Dispatch the swarm. Instead of
searching for a single lead, give chat
JPT a command. 550 leads in the SAS
space. Verify their emails. Rank them by
revenue. That's it. Let it run. You go
get coffee. But there is one catch. Chat
GPT is still trapped inside a text box.
It can find leads, but it can't actually
put them into your CRM or build a
process around them. Number two, your
eyes. Stop describing your problems.
Chat GPT is very visual. You can take a
photo of a whiteboard sketch, a broken
car part, or a complex analytics
dashboard. Just upload it and then say,
"Analyze this picture. Tell me what's
wrong with it." and tell me one move
that I can make to fix it. You're using
chat GPT as your eyes, not just your
keyboard. And the great thing is Chat
GPT can see things human eyes can't. And
finally, number three, your research
assistant. You can do deep research that
was once the domain of an analyst who
you would pay $50,000 for. Recently, I
was in a meeting with a chief technology
officer of a large firm. And he said
something very interesting. He said, "I
had to evaluate six presentations
delivered by a very large IT consulting
firm on the technology infrastructure of
a massive data center." And there were
300 pages of dense information. But what
did he do? He uploaded them all in Chad
GPT, hired a swarm of AI analysts. One
afternoon, that's all it took. Now, that
would have taken weeks before. That's
the world we're heading into. In the age
of AI, you won't be billing for your
time anymore. You'll only bill for your
taste. So, this swarm gives you an army
of powerful interns. But your next
strategy isn't about hiring AI to take
orders. Is there to challenge you? Your
third strategy then is the devil's
advocate. Around the 1500s, the Catholic
Church was the most powerful
organization on earth. But it was also
under a lot of attack. By 1587, the Pope
had a massive problem. The church was
canonizing saints left and right. So the
Pope did something pretty radical. He
created an office called the Advocaci,
the devil's advocate. This person's
entire job was to argue against the
canonization of any saint, to find the
dirt, to poke holes, to be ruthless. The
church realized this 400 years ago. When
the stakes are high, good decisions are
rarely made through agreements. They
come from conflict. Now, why is this
necessary? Well, it's called the IKEA
effect. We fall in love with anything we
build ourselves. Research shows that
smart people are great at spotting flaws
in other people's thinking, physically
incapable of seeing them in their own.
So the key insight, most people use chat
GPT for validation, but you should use
it for violation. But here's the
problem. Chat GPT is programmed to keep
you happy. So you have to force it to
behave differently. So, here are the
three tricks to break the AI's
peopleleaser programming. First, use
magic triggers. Force adversarial
thinking. Instead of saying, "What do
you think?" be specific. Prompt it and
say, "Audit this using first principles
or act as my fierce competitor." You may
not get what you want, but you will get
what you need. Second, shadow boxing.
Don't step into the ring unprepared.
Let's say if you're going out to raise
money for your venture, tell the AI,
simulate a debate between a ruthless,
skeptical VC and a visionary product
designer. Let the VC push back on the
idea. I want to see that fight and learn
from it. This way, you let AI expose the
weak points so you don't fumble on them
in the real world meeting. Third, the
blind spot check. feed it your strategy
and ask one question based on what you
know about me. What are the gaps in my
reasoning? When we get successful, we
develop two bad habits. We trap
ourselves in this bubble of our ego and
we surround ourselves with people who
just say yes. That's why this strategy
is so critical to save you from
yourself. But knowing where you're wrong
or why you're wrong is not enough. You
still have to learn fast about what's
right. That's where our next strategy
comes in, the neural link. And it breaks
the rule most of us grew up believing
that mastery takes 10,000 hours. You
know, there is a famous story about a
physicist Max Plank after he won the
Nobel Prize, he went on a tour giving
the same speech about quantum mechanics
every night. Now, his chauffeur sat in
the front row every time and literally
memorized every word. One night the
chauffeur said, "Professor, I'm getting
bored just listening to you. Let's
switch. I'll give the lecture on stage
and you sit in the audience wearing my
cap." Plank of course agreed. Same
words, same structure, same cadence. The
speech was flawless. But at the end, a
physicist in the audience stood up and
asked a deep technical question. But the
chauffeur didn't panic at all. He smiled
and said, "I am surprised to hear such a
simple question in a city as advanced as
Munich. To prove how simple it is, I'm
going to let my chauffeur answer it." Of
course, that was Max Plank. But here's
the point. Most people use chat like
that chauffeur. They copy paste smart
sounding phrases and answers to sound
intelligent. They have fluency without
foundation. So, here are three ways to
get that neural link. True understanding
without becoming that chauffeur. First
the jargon translator for instance tell
it explain the concept of API using the
restaurant metaphors only. Suddenly the
menu becomes the documentation. The
kitchen is the server and the waiter is
the API. The messenger that takes your
order delivers it in the kitchen brings
back the results. You aren't learning
from scratch. You're translating that
jargon into your jargon. Second, the
progressive professor Richard Feainman
said that if you can't explain it
simply, you don't understand it. So
don't ask Chachi Peter to explain
quantum computing, but instead say
explain quantum computing to me three
ways. One, like I am a 5-year-old and
give me the simplest explanation. Number
two, like I am a 15year-old, explain it
with logic and examples. And three, like
I'm a college student, share the
underlying theory. When you do that in
that particular order, you will feel any
concept click into place in your brain
instantly. And third, the degree
download. You teach it, you keep it. So
use AI to be your target audience or a
peer prompted to say something like, I
want to build a cool AI commerce
product. I need to learn the foundation
of how machine learning works. Skip the
theory, only give me actionable skills,
no fluff, and then test me so I can
teach it back to you. You just replaced
a boot camp worth $50,000 with a PDF.
So, here you are. You have built a
high-performance chat GPT machine, but
such machines tend to overheat. The
fifth strategy is called the executive
coach, and without it, none of the other
strategies would work. 2,000 years ago,
Marcus Orurelius was the emperor of
Rome, but he was also the loneliest. He
had no one to talk to. So, he hired a
coach. That coach was a blank scroll.
Every night in his tent, he wrote down
his anxieties, his fears, his advice to
himself. He titled that manuscript to
himself. If you are a successful
executive or on the path of being one,
you need an executive coach. I had two
and they both changed my trajectory
dramatically. But sometimes executive
coaches and mentors aren't going to be
available to you at midnight when you
need them the most when you can't sleep
because of a decision you have to make.
And that's when you can use chat GPT to
show you a mirror with zero emotional
baggage. You can even turn the voice
mode. That's what I do. Here are three
tricks to turn chat into your temporary
executive coach. First, the vomit
mirror. When you are overwhelmed, your
brain is going to be a tangled mess. It
happens to me. Open voice mode and say,
"I am going to rant for 5 minutes about
everything stressing me out. Don't
interrupt. Just listen. When I'm done,
organize my chaos into three lists.
Problems I can solve today. problems I
need to delegate, noise I need to
ignore. That's it. And then go ahead,
just rant as long as you want. Second,
the stoic mirror. It's possible that you
may have just lost a deal or you got
fired or something terrible happened.
You can say to Chad GPT at that point, I
just took a massive loss. I feel like a
failure. reframe this situation for me
using the story principles and tell me
why this is actually an opportunity.
Have that conversation until you're
convinced. Push back. Let it push back
to you. Even if you're not convinced,
it'll slow down the emotional spiral
that you're on instantly. And the third
and the final mirror, the decision
mirror. Before you make a massive
decision like quitting a job or starting
a new company, talk it out. I am about
to do X. Here's my logic. Let's have a
conversation. You don't have to put
faith in Chat GPT's advice. In fact,
please don't. But talking it out clears
your own head about your own judgment.
We covered five strategies and 15 ways
to optimize your relationship with Chat
GPT. But here's the truth. All of these
skills are essentially alpha. In
finance, when traders find an edge, they
make a fortune and it's called the
alpha. But eventually everyone figures
it out. What's rare today becomes
required tomorrow? That's how life
works. And what happens when it all
becomes a commodity? How will you
maintain your edge then? I'll share my
personal story that changed my idea
about my edge. A week before I took my
CEO job, my executive coach pulled me
aside and he said, "Remember, your title
is CEO, chief executive officer. But
that E does not just stand for
executive. It also stands for emotions.
You're the chief emotions officer now as
well. You have to manage the emotions of
your own people."
That conversation stayed with me for
years because for a long time we have
forgotten that message. You know, we
spend the entire industrial age trying
to turn ourselves into machines. We
measured our worth by our output, our
productivity. If we didn't produce or we
didn't consume, we didn't matter to the
market. So what did we do? We tried to
outroot the robots. But now the actual
machines have arrived to take their job
back. And that's not a threat. That's
actually a permission. Permission to us
to stop pretending like we're machines.
Permission to feel, to show compassion,
to connect to those mysteries, to
connect to others, to connect to this
mystery called life. In a way, I feel
that AI and machines are coming to free
us from labor so we can return to our
essential nature. AI's ultimate gift
might very well be then that it will
make us more human. If you like this
video, here's another one that I think
you will like. Thank you and I love